I have been absolutely fizzing to see 'The Batman' from the day it was announced, but even more so from when I first heard it described as being inspired by 'Se7en' - one of my favourite psychological thrillers of all time. Were we finally going to get the raw and gritty Batman film I'd always dreamed of seeing? We certainly were.

Where to begin? The biggest thing that struck me with this film was just how much time we got to spend with Batman, as Batman. There is very little of Bruce Wayne in this movie and I'm absolutely fine with that. The movie is Batman's story and we are with him from start to finish. We even get some narration from him, which I'm not quite sure how I feel about just yet. It was very good narration but I'm not sure he's a character I want it from.

The Riddler in this movie is phenomenal. After The Joker in 'The Dark Knight' this is absolutely my second favourite Batman film villain. He was clearly inspired by the Zodiac killer and what an inspired choice. Also the use of the riddles in the film is nothing short of genius. These are very clever riddles and puzzles and make Batman have to do some serious detective work - something I've always wanted more of from him in the previous films.

This is my favourite incarnation of Catwoman to date. I haven't loved her character's place in the films in the past. I've found she slows everything down and brings out a dull side of Batman that I haven't enjoyed. In this film though she was used perfectly. She's the love interest and a villain/anti-hero all in one. That is massive because it saves another thing that can often bog down a Batman film - the pointless love interest.

The Penguin was probably the one letdown for me. From what I'd seen in the trailer I suspected this may be the case. I'm wondering if they were using this movie as a set-up for him and then in the second film he will evolve and have a lot more to do. In this one though I just found him quite a dull screen-presence.

Robert Pattinson as Batman blew me away. He looked great and his voice was perfect. He was extremely intense and very menacing. Even though I knew he was more than capable of playing the role, I think I still needed to see the end product just for confirmation that he had what it takes. He absolutely did and then some.

The film has quite a unique feel. There are scenes and sequences in this film that would feel out of place in both Tim Burton's Batman universe and Christopher Nolan's universe. But then there are little aspects from each of their respective films which clearly inspired parts of 'The Batman'. It basically took the best things from each of them and then twisted them into it's own style - while obviously adding a lot of its own stuff also. It's very well done in that sense.

The Batmobile in this movie is awesome. There's just no other way to put it. The sound it made and the vibrations it sent through my cinema chair were bone-chilling. The chase sequence in this movie with The Penguin is one of the best I've ever seen.

The film is long at just under 3 hours but it really never feels like it. There's a short period in the middle of the movie where everything slows down for a little while. That really is the only flat part of the movie however. The rest happens at a break-neck pace.

It's hard to find enough good things to say about this movie. I need to see it again and digest a couple of things for a little longer, but for now I have it firmly sitting in second place behind 'The Dark Knight' in my order of favourite Batman films. 10/10.
This movie wants to be so much more than it ends up being. The tone and color palette are incredible for the majority of the movie until they inexplicably change to a pastel for the final sequence, which is jarring, underwhelming and feels like a sequence from Batman Forever being stuck into a Tim Burton Batman film.

Throughout the movie you feel like you really want to love it, you appreciate the quality of the production, and yet it feels soulless.

The movie is over-long with some sequences being held for so long that I'd occasionally nod off.

Batman is presented as a grounded emo-type loner who patrols the streets looking for signs of trouble, and his eventual reveal as Batman is quite basic. Yes, there is a scene in which he punches someone brutally, but the rest of the fight sequence is pedestrian.

Batman works a case in a noirish setting as a semi-detective who tends to just stand still, brood and gaze intently at things. And Inspector Gordon relies so much on him that one wonders whether the viewer is missing some prodigious detective skills of his.

The start of the investigation into a murder is drawn-out and, again, lacks any real punch.

The Riddler starts off as very mysterious and well-executed. The main issue is that he disappears for the majority of the movie only to leave clues for Batman to solve, à la the Zodiac killer, but no genuine riddles. Once he reappears at the end, he seems to lack motivation for his actions and fails to appear anything other than a deranged child. One can see they were going for a similar disturbed edginess to Heath Ledger's Joker but it doesn't deliver. And his final plot of flooding Gotham doesn't appear to be of super-villain proportions and I failed to see the genius behind that plan. Like... why?

Colin Farrell as Penguin and John Turturo as Falcons are brilliant. Bruce Wayne is too emo to appear as though he has any functioning life outside his mission as either a stalker or as Batman. Alfred is underused and his relationship with Bruce seems aloof. There is one scene at the hospital where the emotion finally sets in and it pulls at your heartstrings.

I loved the backstory of Bruce's father. It was a great addition.

Selina Kyle is excellent.

As mentioned at the start, the finale is a real letdown and underwhelming. It feels like they wanted to do something big for the finale but it just feels tropey. It doesn't feel like a natural place the story would lead to. Zack Snyder, Christopher Nolan and Tim Burton were great with the final payoffs. This movie doesn't deliver that. It's a mind-bogglingly silly "master plan" by the Riddler. And the Riddler loses all his initial mystique in the third act of the film when he finally reappears.

And don't get me started about the silly Joker tacked on at the end. You know the director is aiming for something nightmarishly disturbed and maniacal but it doesn't work. The Joker sounds like Jim Carrey and it's silly that it's him who says "riddle me this" instead of the Riddler. And their scene ends with childish maniacal laughter.

Paterson plays Batman well. His voice is excellent and his voiceovers at the start are brilliant. It's just too bad they didn't use more of his narration throughout the movie; it would've worked a treat.

The score is excellent although tends to primarily use the one theme with slight variations.

Is the movie good? Your brain tells you that you are meant to say "yes" because there is a lot of quality in the film itself, but the sum of the parts is where it doesn't live up to its potential. It's over-long, poorly paced, with underdeveloped characters and a main villain who shows great promise at the start but ultimately underwhelms and the finale is jarring for all the wrong reasons. It isn't epic in any manner whatsoever although you know that's what they are trying for: but all they deliver is something tonally very different from the rest of the film, and the villainous plan is a head-scratcher due to its mediocrity.

You will watch it once at the theatre and you will tell yourself "I think it's good but I don't know why. Maybe I should watch it at home when it's released on home video so I can give it another go." How many times will you watch it? Depends on your taste. Given how slow and long it is, my guess is that I'll only watch it one more time when it's released at home... but even then I'm unsure and not excited by that prospect.

Did they make a mistake by making this movie? Not at all. I'm interested in such a different take and I'm happy it exists and that I got to watch it. It has some incredible moments. But that's it.